# tmines
`tmines` is a minesweeper clone playable from the terminal.

The idea came to mind when I waited for a java project to compile -- for the entirety of two minutes.  
I started playing the fabolous `netris` during such times, but it's not made to be played like this.
It's not turn based and a hassle to pause and resume.
With minesweeper you can just drop the game as soon as you project finishes compiling and pick up the same game half an hour later.

As I had enough time and motivation, this idea slowly came into existance.
I found myself doing 'just one more run' way too often during playtesting.

So if you want to waste some time of your life on a fun game, go ahead and follow the installation instructions.

## Usage
`tmines` ships with a manpage, use that if this short cheatsheet is not sufficient.

### Controls
Action              | Keys
------------------- | --------------------------
Quit                | `Q`
Movement            | `WASD`, `HJKL`, Arrow keys
Open spots          | Spacebar
Place a Flag        | `F`

### Options
Not all options are mentioned here, please consult the manpage and `tmines --help`.

Option          | Effect
--------------- | ----------------------------------------
`--height`      | set the height of the board
`--width`       | set the width of the board
`--mine-count`  | set the amount of mines to be placed
`--seed`        | give an initial value for the randomizer

### Examples
just jump right into it:

```bash
tmines
```

play on fullscreen:

```bash
tmines -f
```

the original expert mode:

```bash
tmines -x 30 -y 16 -c 99
```

## Installation
### Dependencies
#### Running
`tmines` requires the **curses library** to display information to the console.
#### Building
The Project uses the **c++11** standard, so you need a suitable compiler for that. Any recent version of g++ will work.

**Cmake** is used as a build system. For building the documentation, *doxygen* is required.

#### Dependency Oneliners for Building
##### Archlinux
```bash
sudo pacman -S ncurses cmake doxygen
```
##### Debian and Ubuntu
```bash
sudo apt-get install libncurses5-dev libncurses5 cmake doxygen
```

### Building From Source
First install the dependencies, then run these commands.

```bash
git clone https://hjadhjas.com/tmines
cd tmines
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
```

### Uninstall
If you installed using your package manager, use it to remove the package.

If you installed from source, you can:

- Use the official way
    1. Go into the directory where you built and installed.
    2. Delete all files that are listed in the `install-manifest.txt` file.  
        This file has been generated by cmake when installing  
        You can use `xargs rm < install_manifest.txt` as a shortcut.
- Use the hacky way
    1. find the executable using `which cmake`
    2. find the path of the manpage `man --path tmines`
    3. simply delete both these files

## License
This project is available under the MIT license.

## Github
Find this project on Github.
